---

copyright:

  years: 1994, 2017

lastupdated: "2017-12-06"

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:tip: .tip}
{:screen: .screen}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}

# Managing devices
{: #cp_compacclisc}

You can manage the licenses for active control panel software, like cPanel and Parallels, from the customer portal on the Control Panel Licenses window. You can view licenses and their associated IPs, download license files, and cancel individual licenses. You can also manage the passwords for the software on each device from the Customer Portal.
{:shortdesc}


## Downloading a license to a device
{: #cp_compdllisc}

A license file is used to verify that the license is valid for software on a device, and any software features that are enabled. You can download license files from the customer portal, but only on the device that runs the corresponding control panel software. Use the following steps to download a license file.

1. Log in to the customer portal with your unique credentials.
2. Select **Devices** > **Manage** > **Control Panel Licenses** from the menu to access the Control Panel Licenses window.
3. Select **Actions > Download License File** for the license.
4. Save or download the file to the control panel software on the device using the prompts provided by the device's operating system.

After you download the license file to the device, the control panel software's details regarding the license are updated. If issues occur or if the download was not successful, try the download process again by repeating the previous steps.

## Canceling a control panel license
{: #cp_compcanlisc}

Control panel licenses are invoiced on a monthly basis, based on the agreed-upon terms at the time the license was purchased. You can cancel licenses at any time and they are canceled on the next upcoming billing anniversary date. To ensure a cancellation is appropriately applied to the current billing cycle, cancellations must be made no less than 24 hours prior to the billing anniversary date. Specific information on the billing anniversary for the account will be displayed during the cancellation process. Use the following steps to cancel a control panel license.

1. Back up or transfer any data associated with the control panel license.
2. Log in to the customer portal with your unique credentials.
3. Select **Devices** > **Manage** > **Control Panel Licenses** from the menu to access the Control Panel Licenses window.
4. Select **Actions** > **Cancel** for the control panel license you want to cancel.
5. Enter any notes regarding the cancellation in the **Notes** text box.
6. Click **Continue** to advanced to the confirmation screen.
7. Select the **Data Loss Acknowledgement** check box.
  
  If you didn't back up any important data, return to the first step and back up all data prior to canceling the license.
  {: tip}

8. Click **Cancel License**.

After you initiate the cancellation process, the control panel license is scheduled for cancellation for the upcoming billing anniversary date. If the cancellation was made in error, you can void the cancellation on the Cancellations screen in the customer portal.

## Managing software passwords on devices
{: #cp_bpmanacctresp}

Each piece of software that is provisioned on a device is assigned a password that is automatically generated by {{site.data.keyword.BluSoftlayer_notm}} infrastructure systems. Software passwords for each device are stored on the **Passwords** tab on the Device Details screen in the customer portal.  After you access the software for the first time, change your passwords. Optionally, you can store software credentials on the **Passwords** tab for each device. However, when you store passwords in the customer portal, any person with access to the account and appropriate permissions can view those passwords.
